others.md, before:

Other Related Products Information
==================================

## Developing

### eclipse UML visualizer: ObjectAid UML Explorer

In the 'Add Repository' dialog, enter this information and press 'OK':
- Name: `ObjectAid UML Explorer`
- URL: `http://www.objectaid.com/update/current`

## JBoss EAP 6.4

### Install

    java -jar <eap_jar> -console

### Updating JBoss EAP

Downlaod the EAP patched and unzip the bundle to get the incremental fix.
E.g. jboss-eap-6.4.8.CP.zip
Lauch the CLI

    $ ./jboss-cli.sh 

In the cli launch the patch command

    [standalone@localhost:9999 /] patch apply /path/to/downloaded-patch.zip
    
### Password

to add user or change password use

    ./add-user.sh -a user password

### Relax password strength enforcement

Change `bin\add-user.properties`:

    password.restriction=RELAX

### Stop EAP

    ./jboss-cli.sh -c --command=":shutdown()"

### Configuration

EAP configuration is in:

    <JBOSSS_HOME>/standalone/configuration/standalone.xml


System properties:

    <JBOSSS_HOME>/bin/standalone.conf

### Skip application deployment

Add in the deployment directory a file

    <name>.skipdeploy
    

### Multiple instances of EAP

Guidelines on how to run multiple instances by copying standalone directory in JBoss EAP.

Copy standalone directory. For example, to node1 and node2 like:

    cp  -a  $JBOSS_HOME/standalone $JBOSS_HOME/node1
    cp  -a  $JBOSS_HOME/standalone $JBOSS_HOME/node2
    
Start each instance, using the start up scripts in $JBOSS_HOME/bin, by specifying the node name, ip address (or a port shift) and server directory:

    ./standalone.sh -Djboss.node.name=node1 -Djboss.server.base.dir=$JBOSS_HOME/node1 -c standalone.xml -b 10.20.30.40 -bmanagement 10.20.30.4

with the same IP:

    ./standalone.sh -Djboss.node.name=kie-node1 -Djboss.server.base.dir=$JBOSS_HOME/kie-node1 -c standalone.xml -Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=1

### Adding a shared library to the EAP configuration

[class loading and modules](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_jboss_enterprise_application_platform/7.1/html/configuration_guide/overview_of_class_loading_and_modules#modules)

- Add the module:

        ./jboss-cli.sh 
    
        module add --name=<module-name> --resources=<absolute_path>/library.jar

- Define a global module, so it will be shared among all the other modules

        connect
        /subsystem=ee:list-add(name=global-modules,value={name=<module-name>})

- Another option is to declare the dependency in a specific WAR file adding the following line to META-INF/MANIFEST.MF

        Dependencies: <module-name>


### Logging

configuration in JBoss console:

- Core -> Logging -> Log categories
- add the package

usage in the code (it's possible to inject it):

    import org.slf4j.Logger;
    import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
    (...)
    private Logger LOGGER = LoggerFactory.getLogger(getClass());

#### Configure in a project

In the POM file add:

  <dependency>
      <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
      <artifactId>slf4j-api</artifactId>
      <version>1.7.2</version>
      <scope>runtime</scope>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
      <groupId>ch.qos.logback</groupId>
      <artifactId>logback-classic</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.9</version>
  </dependency>

Add in the classpath `logback.xml` (or `logback-test.xml`):

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <configuration>
    
      <appender name="consoleAppender" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
        <encoder>
          <pattern>%date{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %class{36}.%method:%line - %msg%n</pattern>
        </encoder>
      </appender>
    
      <logger name="org.kie" level="info"/>
      <logger name="org.drools" level="info"/>
      <logger name="org.jbpm" level="info"/>
    
    
      <root level="debug">
        <appender-ref ref="consoleAppender" />
      </root>
    
    </configuration>

### How to increase heap size

Edit `bin/standalone.conf` and change:

    JAVA_OPTS="-Xms2303m -Xmx4303m -XX:MetaspaceSize=96M -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=1024m -Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true"

### Frameworks supported by EAP

EAP 6.4 - Hibernate 4.2.18

#### SQL Dialects (hibernate.dialect)

    DB2	org.hibernate.dialect.DB2Dialect
    DB2 AS/400	org.hibernate.dialect.DB2400Dialect
    DB2 OS390	org.hibernate.dialect.DB2390Dialect
    Firebird	org.hibernate.dialect.FirebirdDialect
    FrontBase	org.hibernate.dialect.FrontbaseDialect
    H2 Database	org.hibernate.dialect.H2Dialect
    HypersonicSQL	org.hibernate.dialect.HSQLDialect
    Informix	org.hibernate.dialect.InformixDialect
    Ingres	org.hibernate.dialect.IngresDialect
    Interbase	org.hibernate.dialect.InterbaseDialect
    Mckoi SQL	org.hibernate.dialect.MckoiDialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2000	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServerDialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2005	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServer2005Dialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2008	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServer2008Dialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2012	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServer2008Dialect
    MySQL5	org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5Dialect
    MySQL5 with InnoDB	org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5InnoDBDialect
    MySQL with MyISAM	org.hibernate.dialect.MySQLMyISAMDialect
    Oracle (any version)	org.hibernate.dialect.OracleDialect
    Oracle 9i	org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle9iDialect
    Oracle 10g	org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle10gDialect
    Oracle 11g	org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle10gDialect
    Pointbase	org.hibernate.dialect.PointbaseDialect
    PostgreSQL	org.hibernate.dialect.PostgreSQLDialect
    PostgreSQL 9.2	org.hibernate.dialect.PostgreSQL82Dialect
    Postgres Plus Advanced Server	org.hibernate.dialect.PostgresPlusDialect
    Progress	org.hibernate.dialect.ProgressDialect
    SAP DB	org.hibernate.dialect.SAPDBDialect
    Sybase	org.hibernate.dialect.SybaseASE15Dialect
    Sybase 15.7	org.hibernate.dialect.SybaseASE157Dialect
    Sybase Anywhere	org.hibernate.dialect.SybaseAnywhereDialect
    

EAP 7.0 - Hibernate 5.0.9

[JBoss Enterprise Application Platform Component Details](https://access.redhat.com/articles/112673)

## Internal repositories

stored where eap is launched:

    $EAP_HOME/bin/

- git repo `.niogit`
- maven `repositories/kie`
- index `.index`
- h2 database

Default document implementation store files in the file system:

    .doc
    business-central.war/WEB-INF/tmp

## Remote debug
**By default debug mode is disabled.**
Launch:

    ./standalone.sh --debug

or change sh with: `DEBUG_MODE=true`

Check `<JBOSS_HOME>/bin/standalone.sh`

In Eclipse create a new Debug configuration using the template `Remote Java Application`:

- Connection Type: Standard
- Port: 8787 (standard port of JBoss EAP)

## Database

### H2

TCP config:

java -cp h2*.jar org.h2.tools.Server -tcp

To remotely connect to a database using the TCP server, use the following driver and database URL:

    JDBC driver class: org.h2.Driver
    Database URL: jdbc:h2:tcp://localhost/~/h2-net


### Mysql DB Driver

    JAR: <JBOSSS_HOME>/modules/com/mysql/main/mysql-connector-java.jar



    JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dmysql.host.ip=127.0.0.1"
    JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dmysql.host.port=3306"
    JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dmysql.bpms.schema=bpms"


# Interesting information

- [Simian (Similarity Analyser) identifies duplication in code and rules](https://www.harukizaemon.com/simian/index.html)
- [Bridge Java and .net](http://jni4net.com/)

Commit message:

lib versions and git hook note

others.md, after:

Other Related Products Information
==================================

## Developing

### eclipse UML visualizer: ObjectAid UML Explorer

In the 'Add Repository' dialog, enter this information and press 'OK':
- Name: `ObjectAid UML Explorer`
- URL: `http://www.objectaid.com/update/current`

## JBoss EAP 6.4

### Install

    java -jar <eap_jar> -console

### Updating JBoss EAP

Downlaod the EAP patched and unzip the bundle to get the incremental fix.
E.g. jboss-eap-6.4.8.CP.zip
Lauch the CLI

    $ ./jboss-cli.sh 

In the cli launch the patch command

    [standalone@localhost:9999 /] patch apply /path/to/downloaded-patch.zip
    
### Password

to add user or change password use

    ./add-user.sh -a user password

### Relax password strength enforcement

Change `bin\add-user.properties`:

    password.restriction=RELAX

### Stop EAP

    ./jboss-cli.sh -c --command=":shutdown()"

### Configuration

EAP configuration is in:

    <JBOSSS_HOME>/standalone/configuration/standalone.xml


System properties:

    <JBOSSS_HOME>/bin/standalone.conf

### Skip application deployment

Add in the deployment directory a file

    <name>.skipdeploy
    

### Multiple instances of EAP

Guidelines on how to run multiple instances by copying standalone directory in JBoss EAP.

Copy standalone directory. For example, to node1 and node2 like:

    cp  -a  $JBOSS_HOME/standalone $JBOSS_HOME/node1
    cp  -a  $JBOSS_HOME/standalone $JBOSS_HOME/node2
    
Start each instance, using the start up scripts in $JBOSS_HOME/bin, by specifying the node name, ip address (or a port shift) and server directory:

    ./standalone.sh -Djboss.node.name=node1 -Djboss.server.base.dir=$JBOSS_HOME/node1 -c standalone.xml -b 10.20.30.40 -bmanagement 10.20.30.4

with the same IP:

    ./standalone.sh -Djboss.node.name=kie-node1 -Djboss.server.base.dir=$JBOSS_HOME/kie-node1 -c standalone.xml -Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=1

### Adding a shared library to the EAP configuration

[class loading and modules](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_jboss_enterprise_application_platform/7.1/html/configuration_guide/overview_of_class_loading_and_modules#modules)

- Add the module:

        ./jboss-cli.sh 
    
        module add --name=<module-name> --resources=<absolute_path>/library.jar

- Define a global module, so it will be shared among all the other modules

        connect
        /subsystem=ee:list-add(name=global-modules,value={name=<module-name>})

- Another option is to declare the dependency in a specific WAR file adding the following line to META-INF/MANIFEST.MF

        Dependencies: <module-name>


### Logging

configuration in JBoss console:

- Core -> Logging -> Log categories
- add the package

usage in the code (it's possible to inject it):

    import org.slf4j.Logger;
    import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
    (...)
    private Logger LOGGER = LoggerFactory.getLogger(getClass());

#### Configure in a project

In the POM file add:

  <dependency>
      <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
      <artifactId>slf4j-api</artifactId>
      <version>1.7.2</version>
      <scope>runtime</scope>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
      <groupId>ch.qos.logback</groupId>
      <artifactId>logback-classic</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.9</version>
  </dependency>

Add in the classpath `logback.xml` (or `logback-test.xml`):

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <configuration>
    
      <appender name="consoleAppender" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
        <encoder>
          <pattern>%date{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %class{36}.%method:%line - %msg%n</pattern>
        </encoder>
      </appender>
    
      <logger name="org.kie" level="info"/>
      <logger name="org.drools" level="info"/>
      <logger name="org.jbpm" level="info"/>
    
    
      <root level="debug">
        <appender-ref ref="consoleAppender" />
      </root>
    
    </configuration>

### How to increase heap size

Edit `bin/standalone.conf` and change:

    JAVA_OPTS="-Xms2303m -Xmx4303m -XX:MetaspaceSize=96M -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=1024m -Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true"

### Frameworks supported by EAP

EAP 6.4 - Hibernate 4.2.18

#### SQL Dialects (hibernate.dialect)

    DB2	org.hibernate.dialect.DB2Dialect
    DB2 AS/400	org.hibernate.dialect.DB2400Dialect
    DB2 OS390	org.hibernate.dialect.DB2390Dialect
    Firebird	org.hibernate.dialect.FirebirdDialect
    FrontBase	org.hibernate.dialect.FrontbaseDialect
    H2 Database	org.hibernate.dialect.H2Dialect
    HypersonicSQL	org.hibernate.dialect.HSQLDialect
    Informix	org.hibernate.dialect.InformixDialect
    Ingres	org.hibernate.dialect.IngresDialect
    Interbase	org.hibernate.dialect.InterbaseDialect
    Mckoi SQL	org.hibernate.dialect.MckoiDialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2000	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServerDialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2005	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServer2005Dialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2008	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServer2008Dialect
    Microsoft SQL Server 2012	org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServer2008Dialect
    MySQL5	org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5Dialect
    MySQL5 with InnoDB	org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5InnoDBDialect
    MySQL with MyISAM	org.hibernate.dialect.MySQLMyISAMDialect
    Oracle (any version)	org.hibernate.dialect.OracleDialect
    Oracle 9i	org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle9iDialect
    Oracle 10g	org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle10gDialect
    Oracle 11g	org.hibernate.dialect.Oracle10gDialect
    Pointbase	org.hibernate.dialect.PointbaseDialect
    PostgreSQL	org.hibernate.dialect.PostgreSQLDialect
    PostgreSQL 9.2	org.hibernate.dialect.PostgreSQL82Dialect
    Postgres Plus Advanced Server	org.hibernate.dialect.PostgresPlusDialect
    Progress	org.hibernate.dialect.ProgressDialect
    SAP DB	org.hibernate.dialect.SAPDBDialect
    Sybase	org.hibernate.dialect.SybaseASE15Dialect
    Sybase 15.7	org.hibernate.dialect.SybaseASE157Dialect
    Sybase Anywhere	org.hibernate.dialect.SybaseAnywhereDialect
    

EAP 7.0 - Hibernate 5.0.9

[JBoss Enterprise Application Platform Component Details](https://access.redhat.com/articles/112673)

## Internal repositories

stored where eap is launched:

    $EAP_HOME/bin/

- git repo `.niogit`
- maven `repositories/kie`
- index `.index`
- h2 database

Default document implementation store files in the file system:

    .doc
    business-central.war/WEB-INF/tmp

## Remote debug
**By default debug mode is disabled.**
Launch:

    ./standalone.sh --debug

or change sh with: `DEBUG_MODE=true`

Check `<JBOSS_HOME>/bin/standalone.sh`

In Eclipse create a new Debug configuration using the template `Remote Java Application`:

- Connection Type: Standard
- Port: 8787 (standard port of JBoss EAP)

## Database

### H2

TCP config:

java -cp h2*.jar org.h2.tools.Server -tcp

To remotely connect to a database using the TCP server, use the following driver and database URL:

    JDBC driver class: org.h2.Driver
    Database URL: jdbc:h2:tcp://localhost/~/h2-net


### Mysql DB Driver

    JAR: <JBOSSS_HOME>/modules/com/mysql/main/mysql-connector-java.jar



    JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dmysql.host.ip=127.0.0.1"
    JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dmysql.host.port=3306"
    JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Dmysql.bpms.schema=bpms"

# CI/CD

the post-commit hook script check if the commit touched the POM file, and if it's the case you could also check if it was a version bump, then the script pushes the changes triggering the pipeline.

# Interesting information

- [Simian (Similarity Analyser) identifies duplication in code and rules](https://www.harukizaemon.com/simian/index.html)
- [Bridge Java and .net](http://jni4net.com/)
