process-runtime.md, before:

Process Instances Migration
===========================================================================

Official Documentation:

[Process Instance Migration](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_jboss_bpm_suite/6.4/html/development_guide/chap_human_tasks_management#process_instance_migration)

Limitations:

[Process instance migration limitations](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3599791)

[Fix for case management](https://issues.jboss.org/browse/JBPM-7230)


Asynchronous Jobs
===========================================================================

Some findings:

1. If you specify "Is Async" for a task, it is executed in another thread by the executor
2. if the service get an runtime exception the executor repeat the execution for 3 times, then it puts the job in error state
3. in the Jobs page (Deploy > Jobs), you can find the job in the error tab.
4. the user can requeue the job, so the executor tries again the job execution.
5. from the Jobs page, you can stop and start the Executor, change the frequency and the threads (I think that it is implemented with a polling logic over the DB)
6. If I stop the executor and launch a new process, for some strange reason the job is executed (regardless the executor stop status!) but if the service raise an exception, it is marked as "retrying" and is not processed again till the executor is started again

Asynchronous Workitems
===========================================================================

[make-your-work-asynchronous](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2013/08/make-your-work-asynchronous.html)

A process can have two kinds of asynchronous tasks:
Task with the "Is Async" property set to true - this generates a proxy called "AsyncSignalEventCommand" (an asynchronous job) that is charge to execute the task. In this case, when the job is executed the actual process instance variables are retrieved and passed to the synchronous WorkItemHandler implementation.
Task with an [AsyncWorkItemHandler][1] Implementation (or the command pattern) - in this case an asynchronous job is generated with the input payload serialized at creation time. When the job is executed the payload is always the same regardless the actual values of process variables.

[How do I use job executor from a task in JBoss BPM Suite 6.1?](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2142501)

The 2nd option is to register different instances of `AsyncWorkItemHandler` for different work items.

>To register such handlers for jbpm console or kie-wb additional class is required to inform what shall be registered. A CDI bean that implements WorkItemHandlerProducer interface needs to be provided and placed on the application classpath so CDI container will be able to find it. Then at modeling time TaskName property needs to be aligned with those used at registration time.

**To be clarified: ** Why does it need a new `WorkItemHandlerProducer` to register another implementation of `AsyncWorkItemHandler`? Maybe a traditional workitem registration is enough?

[Introduction to CDI Dependency Injection](https://dzone.com/articles/cdi-di-p1)
[WorkItemHandlerProducer interface](https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-knowledge/blob/master/kie-internal/src/main/java/org/kie/internal/runtime/manager/WorkItemHandlerProducer.java)

## Registering Manually  

In general, what is most likely happening is that you are registering handler manually via ksession and in case you use runtime manager and strategy other than singleton it will be not visible by other contexts. Looks like you are using per process instance strategy which would explain why it fails after starting subprocess - it gets new context - new ksession without handler being registered there. So you need to use RegisterableItemsFactory for registering handlers. That is set on RuntimeEnvironment used to create runtime manager, see here:
https://github.com/kiegroup/jbpm/blob/master/jbpm-services/jbpm-executor/src/test/java/org/jbpm/executor/impl/wih/AsyncContinuationSupportTest.java#L155-L169


Executor configuration
===========================================================================

Executor can work with or without JMS.
JMS is the preferred option but executor can work without it and it does for instance on Tomcat where there is no JMS provider out of the box.
you can disable JMS executor by system property `org.kie.executor.jms=false`

[How can I increase the number of running jobs using the JMS based executor in BPM Suite 6](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3003791)

1. Increase the number of maxSession for the executor MDB (JmsAvailableJobsExecutor) in business-central.war/WEB-INF/ejb-jar.xml, the mdb pool size and also the number of connections for the connection for JmsXA connection factory.
2. Increase the EJB pool size for MDBs
3. Increase the JmsXA connection factory thread pool size

Deployment Descriptor
===========================================================================

While kmodule is mainly targeting on knowledge base and knowledge session basic configuration, deployment descriptors are considered more technical configuration. Following are the items available for configuration via deployment descriptors:


  * persistence unit name for runtime data
  * persistence unit for audit data
  * persistence mode (JPA or NONE)
  * audit mode (JPA, JMS, NONE)
  * runtime strategy (SINGLETON, PER_REQUEST, PER_PROCESS_INSTANCE)
  * list of event listeners to be registered
  * list of task event listeners to be registered
  * list of work item handlers to be registered
  * list of globals to be registered
  * marshalling strategies to be registered (for pluggable variable persistence)
  * required roles to be granted access to resources of the kjar
  * additional configuration options of knowledge session
  * additional environment entries for knowledge session
  * list of fully qualified class names that shall be added to the classes used for serialization by remote services
  * whether or not to limit the classes from the deployment used for serialization by the remote services

[https://docs.jboss.org/jbpm/release/6.5.0.Final/jbpm-docs/html/ch14.html#d0e15405]()


Custom variable persistence
===========================================================================

It is possible store the process variable in a DBMS table.
In order to achieve this result, you have to configure the *Data Object* as *Persistable*.

![Create Data Object](imgs/persistable_01.png)

Then you have to configure the *Persistence descriptor*:

1. From the **Project Settings** open the *Persistence descriptor*.

    ![Persistence descriptor](imgs/persistable_02.png)

2. Add all *Project persistable classes* to the persistence descriptor

    ![Persistence descriptor](imgs/persistable_03.png)

3. By default the new persistence unit points to the same BPM datasource, this means that the table will be created in the same DB of the BPM engine. In order to separate the process specific information from the BPM engine ones, it's a good practice to define a new datasource targeting a different DB. The drawback of the latter configuration is that the BPM datasource and the new one must be XA compliant, with the performance implication that a distributed transaction brings on the table.

## References

[jBPM 6 - store your process variables anywhere](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2014/02/jbpm-6-store-your-process-variables.html)


Advanced Queries
===========================================================================


## References

[Advanced Queries in jBPM](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2016/01/advanced-queries-in-jbpm-64.html)

[Advanced queries in KIE Server](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2016/01/advanced-queries-in-kie-server.html)


[1]: https://github.com/droolsjbpm/jbpm/blob/master/jbpm-services/jbpm-executor/src/main/java/org/jbpm/executor/impl/wih/AsyncWorkItemHandler.java


Correlation Key
===========================================================================

Technically you probably can create a correlation key afterwards, it's basically an entry in the database that links both.  But in the public api it's only exposed when starting a process.  Using internal apis you can probably create a CorrelationKeyInfo object and persist it.  

correct, you should be able to create it and persist, though that does not much change compared to using variable. If I may ask why not assigning correlation key directly?

<https://github.com/kiegroup/jbpm/blob/d881f2a72bd4279d4277b294c2dbc6663d91c612/jbpm-persistence/jbpm-persistence-jpa/src/main/java/org/jbpm/persistence/processinstance/JPAProcessInstanceManager.java#L73-L91>

Tracking the loops
===========================================================================
-Djbpm.loop.level.disabled=true
this loop level is to track different loops over the same constructs in your process. But it capable of tracking them if they are properly structured - so called structured loops.

it’s enabled by default as when you do proper process design around loops this will allow you to isolate them and keep track on the engine level properly. Potential side effect is that it will trigger incorrect nodes if you do have structured loops in your process and multiple instances of given loop is active at the same time.

Classloading
===========================================================================

[Can we change a project classloading precedence in JBoss BPM Suite 6?](https://access.redhat.com/node/1414423/)

[How does JBoss BPM Suite 6 maven dependencies classloading work?](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1588343)

## DataObjects and remote API

If you are creating a data object, make sure that the class has the `@org.kie.api.remote.Remotable` annotation. The `@org.kie.api.remote.Remotable` annotation makes the entity available for use with JBoss BPM Suite remote services such as REST, JMS, and WS.

Upon deployment, jbpm will scan classpath of given kjar to automatically register classes that might be needed for remote interaction. This is done based on following rules:

- all classes included in kjar project itself
- all classes included as dependency of projects type kjar
- classes that are annotated with @XmlRootElement (JAXB annotation) and included as regular dependency of the kjar
- classes that are annotated with @Remotable (kie annotation) and included as regular dependency of the kjar

If that is not enough deployment descriptor allows to manually specify classes that shall be added to the JAXB context via remoteable-classes element:

    <remoteable-classes>
       ...
       <remotable-class>org.jbpm.test.CustomClass</remotable-class>
       <remotable-class>org.jbpm.test.AnotherCustomClass</remotable-class>
       ...
    </remoteable-classes>
    
With this all classes can be added to the JAXB context to properly marshal and unmarshal data types when interacting with jBPM remotely.

Audit 
===========================================================================

## Separate Runtime and BAM data

[https://issues.jboss.org/browse/JBPM-5211]()

JMS Audit
===========================================================================

setting system property

    -Djbpm.audit.jms.enabled=true

File `jbpm.audit.jms.properties` needs to be placed on application classpath (kie-server.war/WEB-INF/classes) as it’s a global setting

```
jbpm.audit.jms.connection.factory.jndi=java:/JmsXA
jbpm.audit.jms.queue.jndi=queue/KIE.AUDIT.ALL
```
For WebLogic AS add: `jbpm.audit.jms.transacted=false` 

[https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3301681]()

Log producer: 

[https://github.com/kiegroup/jbpm/blob/master/jbpm-audit/src/main/java/org/jbpm/process/audit/jms/AsyncAuditLogProducer.java]()

Task not implemented
===========================================================================
Although the BPMN Editor has almost all BPMN task in the palette. Not all are implemented by the runtime.

Missing implementation:

- Messages related nodes (the BPMN spec is not clear on how to implement) **See: Signals**
- Send Task and Receive Task
- Manual Task

The process developer can fill the gap providing the implementation for this tasks through the standard work item handler registration mechanism.

Dummy implementation:

        <work-item-handler>
            <resolver>mvel</resolver>
            <identifier>new org.jbpm.bpmn2.handler.ReceiveTaskHandler(ksession)</identifier>
            <parameters/>
            <name>Receive Task</name>
        </work-item-handler>
        <work-item-handler>
            <resolver>mvel</resolver>
            <identifier>new org.jbpm.bpmn2.handler.SendTaskHandler()</identifier>
            <parameters/>
            <name>Send Task</name>
        </work-item-handler>

## References

[When using Send Task or Receive Task in a BPMN2 process definition with BPMS 6 it gives the ERROR "Could not find work item handler for Send Task"](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1223443)

[Send Task and Receive Task of a BPMN2 process do not work when they are used in different processes as the latter process seems to be waiting for the message to arrive](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1243573)


Issues
===========================================================================

## PerProcessInstanceRuntimeManager

https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1183403


## Error deserializing process instance

If you get the following exception, trying to abort a process instance:

```
java.io.IOException: Error deserializing process instance.
	at org.jbpm.marshalling.impl.AbstractProtobufProcessInstanceMarshaller.readProcessInstance(AbstractProtobufProcessInstanceMarshaller.java:479)

```

It's likely that you have in your Java model a reference to a class that is not present in the classpath.

In fact, you should find down in the stack trace, the evidence of the missing class:

```
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: org.slf4j.impl.Slf4jLogger
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.findClass(ClassLoader.java:530)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:424)
	at org.drools.core.common.ProjectClassLoader$DefaultInternalTypesClassLoader.loadType(ProjectClassLoader.java:394)
	at org.drools.core.common.ProjectClassLoader.loadType(ProjectClassLoader.java:172)
```

Commit message:

security section in ocp deployment, variable length

process-runtime.md, after:

Process Instances Migration
===========================================================================

Official Documentation:

[Process Instance Migration](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_jboss_bpm_suite/6.4/html/development_guide/chap_human_tasks_management#process_instance_migration)

Limitations:

[Process instance migration limitations](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3599791)

[Fix for case management](https://issues.jboss.org/browse/JBPM-7230)


Asynchronous Jobs
===========================================================================

Some findings:

1. If you specify "Is Async" for a task, it is executed in another thread by the executor
2. if the service get an runtime exception the executor repeat the execution for 3 times, then it puts the job in error state
3. in the Jobs page (Deploy > Jobs), you can find the job in the error tab.
4. the user can requeue the job, so the executor tries again the job execution.
5. from the Jobs page, you can stop and start the Executor, change the frequency and the threads (I think that it is implemented with a polling logic over the DB)
6. If I stop the executor and launch a new process, for some strange reason the job is executed (regardless the executor stop status!) but if the service raise an exception, it is marked as "retrying" and is not processed again till the executor is started again

Asynchronous Workitems
===========================================================================

[make-your-work-asynchronous](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2013/08/make-your-work-asynchronous.html)

A process can have two kinds of asynchronous tasks:
Task with the "Is Async" property set to true - this generates a proxy called "AsyncSignalEventCommand" (an asynchronous job) that is charge to execute the task. In this case, when the job is executed the actual process instance variables are retrieved and passed to the synchronous WorkItemHandler implementation.
Task with an [AsyncWorkItemHandler][1] Implementation (or the command pattern) - in this case an asynchronous job is generated with the input payload serialized at creation time. When the job is executed the payload is always the same regardless the actual values of process variables.

[How do I use job executor from a task in JBoss BPM Suite 6.1?](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2142501)

The 2nd option is to register different instances of `AsyncWorkItemHandler` for different work items.

>To register such handlers for jbpm console or kie-wb additional class is required to inform what shall be registered. A CDI bean that implements WorkItemHandlerProducer interface needs to be provided and placed on the application classpath so CDI container will be able to find it. Then at modeling time TaskName property needs to be aligned with those used at registration time.

**To be clarified: ** Why does it need a new `WorkItemHandlerProducer` to register another implementation of `AsyncWorkItemHandler`? Maybe a traditional workitem registration is enough?

[Introduction to CDI Dependency Injection](https://dzone.com/articles/cdi-di-p1)
[WorkItemHandlerProducer interface](https://github.com/kiegroup/droolsjbpm-knowledge/blob/master/kie-internal/src/main/java/org/kie/internal/runtime/manager/WorkItemHandlerProducer.java)

## Registering Manually  

In general, what is most likely happening is that you are registering handler manually via ksession and in case you use runtime manager and strategy other than singleton it will be not visible by other contexts. Looks like you are using per process instance strategy which would explain why it fails after starting subprocess - it gets new context - new ksession without handler being registered there. So you need to use RegisterableItemsFactory for registering handlers. That is set on RuntimeEnvironment used to create runtime manager, see here:
https://github.com/kiegroup/jbpm/blob/master/jbpm-services/jbpm-executor/src/test/java/org/jbpm/executor/impl/wih/AsyncContinuationSupportTest.java#L155-L169


Executor configuration
===========================================================================

Executor can work with or without JMS.
JMS is the preferred option but executor can work without it and it does for instance on Tomcat where there is no JMS provider out of the box.
you can disable JMS executor by system property `org.kie.executor.jms=false`

[How can I increase the number of running jobs using the JMS based executor in BPM Suite 6](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3003791)

1. Increase the number of maxSession for the executor MDB (JmsAvailableJobsExecutor) in business-central.war/WEB-INF/ejb-jar.xml, the mdb pool size and also the number of connections for the connection for JmsXA connection factory.
2. Increase the EJB pool size for MDBs
3. Increase the JmsXA connection factory thread pool size

Deployment Descriptor
===========================================================================

While kmodule is mainly targeting on knowledge base and knowledge session basic configuration, deployment descriptors are considered more technical configuration. Following are the items available for configuration via deployment descriptors:


  * persistence unit name for runtime data
  * persistence unit for audit data
  * persistence mode (JPA or NONE)
  * audit mode (JPA, JMS, NONE)
  * runtime strategy (SINGLETON, PER_REQUEST, PER_PROCESS_INSTANCE)
  * list of event listeners to be registered
  * list of task event listeners to be registered
  * list of work item handlers to be registered
  * list of globals to be registered
  * marshalling strategies to be registered (for pluggable variable persistence)
  * required roles to be granted access to resources of the kjar
  * additional configuration options of knowledge session
  * additional environment entries for knowledge session
  * list of fully qualified class names that shall be added to the classes used for serialization by remote services
  * whether or not to limit the classes from the deployment used for serialization by the remote services

[https://docs.jboss.org/jbpm/release/6.5.0.Final/jbpm-docs/html/ch14.html#d0e15405]()


Custom variable persistence
===========================================================================

It is possible store the process variable in a DBMS table.
In order to achieve this result, you have to configure the *Data Object* as *Persistable*.

![Create Data Object](imgs/persistable_01.png)

Then you have to configure the *Persistence descriptor*:

1. From the **Project Settings** open the *Persistence descriptor*.

    ![Persistence descriptor](imgs/persistable_02.png)

2. Add all *Project persistable classes* to the persistence descriptor

    ![Persistence descriptor](imgs/persistable_03.png)

3. By default the new persistence unit points to the same BPM datasource, this means that the table will be created in the same DB of the BPM engine. In order to separate the process specific information from the BPM engine ones, it's a good practice to define a new datasource targeting a different DB. The drawback of the latter configuration is that the BPM datasource and the new one must be XA compliant, with the performance implication that a distributed transaction brings on the table.

## References

[jBPM 6 - store your process variables anywhere](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2014/02/jbpm-6-store-your-process-variables.html)


Advanced Queries
===========================================================================


## References

[Advanced Queries in jBPM](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2016/01/advanced-queries-in-jbpm-64.html)

[Advanced queries in KIE Server](http://mswiderski.blogspot.it/2016/01/advanced-queries-in-kie-server.html)


[1]: https://github.com/droolsjbpm/jbpm/blob/master/jbpm-services/jbpm-executor/src/main/java/org/jbpm/executor/impl/wih/AsyncWorkItemHandler.java


Correlation Key
===========================================================================

Technically you probably can create a correlation key afterwards, it's basically an entry in the database that links both.  But in the public api it's only exposed when starting a process.  Using internal apis you can probably create a CorrelationKeyInfo object and persist it.  

correct, you should be able to create it and persist, though that does not much change compared to using variable. If I may ask why not assigning correlation key directly?

<https://github.com/kiegroup/jbpm/blob/d881f2a72bd4279d4277b294c2dbc6663d91c612/jbpm-persistence/jbpm-persistence-jpa/src/main/java/org/jbpm/persistence/processinstance/JPAProcessInstanceManager.java#L73-L91>

Tracking the loops
===========================================================================
-Djbpm.loop.level.disabled=true
this loop level is to track different loops over the same constructs in your process. But it capable of tracking them if they are properly structured - so called structured loops.

it’s enabled by default as when you do proper process design around loops this will allow you to isolate them and keep track on the engine level properly. Potential side effect is that it will trigger incorrect nodes if you do have structured loops in your process and multiple instances of given loop is active at the same time.

Classloading
===========================================================================

[Can we change a project classloading precedence in JBoss BPM Suite 6?](https://access.redhat.com/node/1414423/)

[How does JBoss BPM Suite 6 maven dependencies classloading work?](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1588343)

## DataObjects and remote API

If you are creating a data object, make sure that the class has the `@org.kie.api.remote.Remotable` annotation. The `@org.kie.api.remote.Remotable` annotation makes the entity available for use with JBoss BPM Suite remote services such as REST, JMS, and WS.

Upon deployment, jbpm will scan classpath of given kjar to automatically register classes that might be needed for remote interaction. This is done based on following rules:

- all classes included in kjar project itself
- all classes included as dependency of projects type kjar
- classes that are annotated with @XmlRootElement (JAXB annotation) and included as regular dependency of the kjar
- classes that are annotated with @Remotable (kie annotation) and included as regular dependency of the kjar

If that is not enough deployment descriptor allows to manually specify classes that shall be added to the JAXB context via remoteable-classes element:

    <remoteable-classes>
       ...
       <remotable-class>org.jbpm.test.CustomClass</remotable-class>
       <remotable-class>org.jbpm.test.AnotherCustomClass</remotable-class>
       ...
    </remoteable-classes>
    
With this all classes can be added to the JAXB context to properly marshal and unmarshal data types when interacting with jBPM remotely.

Audit 
===========================================================================

## Separate Runtime and BAM data

[https://issues.jboss.org/browse/JBPM-5211]()

## Log limit for variable 255

It's possible to define the variable maximum length, e.g.:

	<property name="org.jbpm.var.log.length" value="1000"/>

DB Schema must be update accordingly.

## JMS Audit

setting system property

    -Djbpm.audit.jms.enabled=true

File `jbpm.audit.jms.properties` needs to be placed on application classpath (kie-server.war/WEB-INF/classes) as it’s a global setting

```
jbpm.audit.jms.connection.factory.jndi=java:/JmsXA
jbpm.audit.jms.queue.jndi=queue/KIE.AUDIT.ALL
```
For WebLogic AS add: `jbpm.audit.jms.transacted=false` 

[https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3301681]()

Log producer: 

[https://github.com/kiegroup/jbpm/blob/master/jbpm-audit/src/main/java/org/jbpm/process/audit/jms/AsyncAuditLogProducer.java]()

Task not implemented
===========================================================================
Although the BPMN Editor has almost all BPMN task in the palette. Not all are implemented by the runtime.

Missing implementation:

- Messages related nodes (the BPMN spec is not clear on how to implement) **See: Signals**
- Send Task and Receive Task
- Manual Task

The process developer can fill the gap providing the implementation for this tasks through the standard work item handler registration mechanism.

Dummy implementation:

        <work-item-handler>
            <resolver>mvel</resolver>
            <identifier>new org.jbpm.bpmn2.handler.ReceiveTaskHandler(ksession)</identifier>
            <parameters/>
            <name>Receive Task</name>
        </work-item-handler>
        <work-item-handler>
            <resolver>mvel</resolver>
            <identifier>new org.jbpm.bpmn2.handler.SendTaskHandler()</identifier>
            <parameters/>
            <name>Send Task</name>
        </work-item-handler>

## References

[When using Send Task or Receive Task in a BPMN2 process definition with BPMS 6 it gives the ERROR "Could not find work item handler for Send Task"](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1223443)

[Send Task and Receive Task of a BPMN2 process do not work when they are used in different processes as the latter process seems to be waiting for the message to arrive](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1243573)


Issues
===========================================================================

## PerProcessInstanceRuntimeManager

https://access.redhat.com/solutions/1183403


## Error deserializing process instance

If you get the following exception, trying to abort a process instance:

```
java.io.IOException: Error deserializing process instance.
	at org.jbpm.marshalling.impl.AbstractProtobufProcessInstanceMarshaller.readProcessInstance(AbstractProtobufProcessInstanceMarshaller.java:479)

```

It's likely that you have in your Java model a reference to a class that is not present in the classpath.

In fact, you should find down in the stack trace, the evidence of the missing class:

```
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: org.slf4j.impl.Slf4jLogger
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.findClass(ClassLoader.java:530)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:424)
	at org.drools.core.common.ProjectClassLoader$DefaultInternalTypesClassLoader.loadType(ProjectClassLoader.java:394)
	at org.drools.core.common.ProjectClassLoader.loadType(ProjectClassLoader.java:172)
```
